BAM-41: update readme file to provide documentation for how to make p… (#7)
KodyPay/kody-clientsdk-python: README.md

# Kody Payments API

This guide provides an overview of using the Kody Payments API and its reference documentation.

## Client Libraries

Kody provides client libraries for many popular languages to access the APIs. If your desired programming language is supported by the client libraries, we recommend that you use this option.

Available languages:
- Python: https://github.com/KodyPay/kody-clientsdk-python/
- Java : https://github.com/KodyPay/kody-clientsdk-java/
- PHP: https://github.com/KodyPay/kody-clientsdk-php/
- .Net: https://github.com/KodyPay/kody-clientsdk-dotnet/

The advantages of using the Kody Client library instead of a REST API are:
- Maintained by Kody.
- Built-in authentication.
- Built-in retries.
- Idiomatic for each language.
- Efficient protocol buffer HTTP request body.

If your coding language is not listed, please let the Kody team know and we will be able to create it for you.

## Authenticate to Payments API

> The client library uses a combination of a `Store ID` and an `API key`. These will be shared with you during the technical integration onbiarding or by your Kody contact.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The client library uses a combination of a `Store ID` and an `API key`. These will be shared with you during the technical integration onboarding or by your Kody contact.
```

1. Terminal - In-person payments
2. Online - E-commerce payments

Each of these channels have their own collection of services that are available as method calls on the client library:
- `KodyPayTerminalService`
- `KodyEcomPaymentsService`

### Terminal

The Kody Payments API Terminal service has the following methods:

- `KodyPayTerminalService.Terminals` - returns all the terminals of the store and their online status
- `KodyPayTerminalService.Pay` - initiate a terminal payment
- `KodyPayTerminalService.Cancel` - cancel an active terminal payment
- `KodyPayTerminalService.PaymentDetails` - get the payment details

### Online

The Kody Payments API Online service has the following methods:

- `KodyPayTerminalService.Terminals` - returns all the terminals of the store and their online status
- `KodyPayTerminalService.Pay` - initiate a terminal payment
- `KodyPayTerminalService.Cancel` - cancel an active terminal payment
- `KodyPayTerminalService.PaymentDetails` - get the payment details

## Demo code

### **Get list of Terminals**

This simple call is a fast, read only method, that returns a list of all terminals assigned to the store, and their online status.

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The terminals request requires the following parameters:
- `store_id` - the ID of your assigned store

```

````python
 with grpc.secure_channel(target=config.address,
                             credentials=grpc.ssl_channel_credentials()) as channel:
        stub = pay_grpc_client.KodyPayTerminalServiceStub(channel)
        response = stub.Terminals(
            pay_model.TerminalsRequest(store_id=config.store_id),
            metadata=[("x-api-key", config.api_key)]
        )
````
- TerminalResponse : Terminal Response

```python
message TerminalsResponse {
  repeated Terminal terminals = 1;
}

message Terminal {
  string terminal_id = 1; // terminal serial number
  bool online = 2;

> }

Reviewer: This is the protobuf response, what does the python object look like?

```

### **Create terminal payment**

> Send to a terminal a payment initiation request. This request can make the terminal to immediately display a card acquiring screen, or display a tip screen to the user which after will go to the card scanning screen.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Send a payment initiation request to a terminal. This request will either make the terminal immediately display the card acquiring screen, or display a tip screen to the user after which it will go to the card acquiring screen.
```

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The pay request requires the following parameters:
- store_id - the ID of your assigned store
- terminal_id - the serial number of the terminal that will process the payment request
- amount - amount as a 2.dp decimal number, such as 1.00

- show_tips -optional

```

        response_iterator = stub.Pay(
            pay_model.PayRequest(store_id=config.store_id, terminal_id=config.terminal_id, amount=amount),
            metadata=[("x-api-key", config.api_key)]
        )

# with tips screen
with grpc.secure_channel(target=config.address, credentials=grpc.ssl_channel_credentials()) as channel:
        stub = pay_grpc_client.KodyPayTerminalServiceStub(channel)
        response_iterator = stub.Pay(
            pay_model.PayRequest(store_id=config.store_id, terminal_id=config.terminal_id, amount=amount,  show_tips=bool(True)),
            metadata=[("x-api-key", config.api_key)]
        )
````

- PayResponse : Payment Response

````python
message PayResponse {
  PaymentStatus status = 1;
  optional string failure_reason = 2; // only populated on failure
  optional string receipt_json = 3; // json blob containing the receipt data
  string order_id = 4;
  google.protobuf.Timestamp date_created = 5;
  optional string ext_payment_ref = 6;
  google.protobuf.Timestamp date_paid = 7;
  optional string total_amount = 8;
  optional string sale_amount = 9;
  optional string tips_amount = 10;
}
````

### **Get Terminal Payment Details**

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The payment details request requires the following parameters:
- `store_id` - the ID of your assigned store
- `order_id` - the Order ID returned in the payment response, a unique UUID value for each payment.

The request authenticates with the server using the `x-api-key` metadata field, you must use your assigned API key.

```

````python
with grpc.secure_channel(target=config.address, credentials=grpc.ssl_channel_credentials()) as channel:
        stub = pay_grpc_client.KodyPayTerminalServiceStub(channel)
        response = stub.PaymentDetails(
            pay_model.PaymentDetailsRequest(store_id=config.store_id, order_id=config.order_id),
            metadata=[("x-api-key", config.api_key)]
        )
````
- PayResponse : Get Payment Detail Response

### **Cancel Terminal Payment**

> 

Reviewer: The cancel payment request requires the following parameters:
- `store_id` - the ID of your assigned store
- `terminal_id` - the serial number of the terminal that is processing the payment request
- `amount` - the amount sent in the original payment request, used to find the payment request
- `order_id` - the Order ID returned in the initial payment response, a unique UUID value for each payment

The request authenticates with the server using the `x-api-key` metadata field, you must use your assigned API key.

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The cancel payment request requires the following parameters:
- `store_id` - the ID of your assigned store
- `terminal_id` - the serial number of the terminal that is processing the payment request
- `amount` - the amount sent in the original payment request, used to find the payment request
- `order_id` - the Order ID returned in the initial payment response, a unique UUID value for each payment

The request authenticates with the server using the `x-api-key` metadata field, you must use your assigned API key.

```

````python
with grpc.secure_channel(target=config.address, credentials=grpc.ssl_channel_credentials()) as channel:
        stub = pay_grpc_client.KodyPayTerminalServiceStub(channel)
        response = stub.Cancel(
            pay_model.CancelRequest(store_id=config.store_id, terminal_id=config.terminal_id, amount=amount,  order_id=config.order_id),
            metadata=[("x-api-key", config.api_key)]
        )
````
- CancelResponse : Cancel Payment Response

````python
message CancelResponse {
  PaymentStatus status = 1;
}
````

> ### **Create online payment**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### **Create online payment**

The online payment request requires the following parameters:
- `store_id` - the ID of your assigned store
- `payment_reference` - a unique reference for the payment, sent from the client and returned by the server
- `amount` - the amount to request for the online payment, formatted as a 2.dp decimal number, such as `1.00`
- `currency` - the currency for this payment in 3 character ISO format, such as `GBP`
- `order_id` - a unique order ID for this payment, sent from the client and returned by the server
- `return_url` - where the payment form will redirect to after the payment has completed, the return url will have additional query parameters appended to indicate the status of the payment request.
- `expiry - how long the payment form will wait until the payment expires and the page will redirect to the return url

The request authenticates with the server using the `x-api-key` metadata field, you must use your assigned API key.
```

> # Payments Via Kody

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
# Kody API - Python integration
```

> KodyPay supports following ways to execute payment.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Kody supports the following channels to accept payments via API.
```

> 1. Kody Terminal

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. Terminal - In person payment
```

> 2. Online Payment

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
2. Online - E-commerce Payment
```

## Kody Terminal

> Pre-requisite to start payment through Kody Terminal are:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
These are the steps to initiate a payment on a Kody Terminal:
```

> 1. Request Kody to order the Kody Terminal.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. Request Kody to order a test Kody Terminal for you to receive at your address and be able to simulate all payment scenarios.
```

> 2. Request Kody to create a Store and configure it as per the requirement.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
2. Request Kody to create a test Store and configure it as per your requirements.
```

> 3. Request Kody to assign Terminal to the Store.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
3. After you receive the test terminal, please request Kody to assign that Terminal serial number to the Store created for your testing purposes.
```

> 4. Request Kody to generate API Key assigned to the Store. API key is needed for the authorization of the payment request.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
4. Request Kody to generate an API Key linked to the test Store. This API key is needed for the authorization of all API requests.
```

Once the above pre-requisite has met, you can start developing the code to make a payment request using the API key.

Following steps are needed:

1. **Kody SDK Client**: The Kody SDK Client allows direct communication with the Kody Payments Gateway. It simplifies the integration of Kody payments into your application.
The SDK is generated from Protobuf gRPC protocols to facilitate communication with the Kody Payments Gateway.
Kody SDK Client are available in following languages:
- Java : https://github.com/KodyPay/kody-clientsdk-java/
- Python: https://github.com/KodyPay/kody-clientsdk-python/
- PHP: https://github.com/KodyPay/kody-clientsdk-php/
- .Net: https://github.com/KodyPay/kody-clientsdk-dotnet/

> 2. **Get list of Terminals** : Terminals request is made to verify the list of available terminals and to check whether it is online or not.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. **Get list of Terminals** : An API request is made to verify the list of available terminals and to check whether it they are online or not.
```

Key attributes to make a terminal call:
- TerminalsRequest : Request message for fetching terminal status 
```protobuf
message TerminalsRequest {
  string store_id = 1; // UUID of store
}
```
- KodyPayTerminalService : Service used to make the Terminal request.
- KodyPayTerminalService.Terminals: RPC function used to make the Terminal Request
```protobuf
service KodyPayTerminalService {
  rpc Terminals(TerminalsRequest) returns (TerminalsResponse);
}
```
- TerminalsResponse: Response message 

````protobuf
message TerminalsResponse {
  repeated Terminal terminals = 1;
}
message Terminal {
  string terminal_id = 1; // terminal serial number
  bool online = 2;
}
````
3. **Create payment request**: Request to start the payment on the selected terminal.

Key attributes to make a payment call:

- PayRequest : Request message to start payment.
```protobuf
message PayRequest {
  string store_id = 1; // UUID of store
  string amount = 2; // amount in BigDecimal/2.dp (0.00)
  string terminal_id = 3; // send the payment to this terminal serial number

>   optional bool show_tips = 4; // Show tips on the terminal

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  optional bool show_tips = 4; // Show tip options on the terminal, as per your requirements. Default is to NOT show tip options.
```

}
```
- KodyPayTerminalService : Service used to make the Payment request.
- KodyPayTerminalService.Pay: RPC function used to make the Payment Request
```protobuf
service KodyPayTerminalService {
  rpc Pay(PayRequest) returns (stream PayResponse);
}
```
- PayResponse : Payment Response

````protobuf
message PayResponse {
  PaymentStatus status = 1;
  optional string failure_reason = 2; // only populated on failure
  optional string receipt_json = 3; // json blob containing the receipt data

>   string order_id = 4;

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  string order_id = 4;  // UUID generated by server to represent a payment.
```

  google.protobuf.Timestamp date_created = 5;

>   optional string ext_payment_ref = 6;

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  optional string ext_payment_ref = 6; // unique ID generated by the terminal for each payment
```

  google.protobuf.Timestamp date_paid = 7;

>   optional string total_amount = 8;

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  optional string total_amount = 8; // total amount paid including tips
```

>   optional string sale_amount = 9;

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  optional string sale_amount = 9; // amount paid excluding any tips
```

>   optional string tips_amount = 10;

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  optional string tips_amount = 10; // tip amount paid, will be empty if no tips were selected.
```

Reviewer: Can you verify whether it will be empty or `0.00` if no tips selected please 🙏🏻

Reviewer: If we show these protobuf messages we should include comments to explain each field, or we convert them to python - and then include a bulleted list of explanations for each field.

> }

Reviewer: ```suggestion
}

enum PaymentStatus {
  PENDING = 0;
  SUCCESS = 1;
  FAILED = 2;
  CANCELLED = 3;
}
```

````

> 4. **Sample code:** Samples of the code to showcase how to make payment are available in the respective language client sdk.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4. **Sample code:** Samples of the code to showcase how to make a payment or list terminals are available in the respective language client SDK.
```

````

## Payments API Reference

Kody supports the following channels to accept payments via API.

1. [**Terminal**](#terminal---in-person-payments) - In-person payments
2. [**Online**](#online---e-commerce-payments) - E-commerce payments

Each of these channels have their own collection of services that are available as method calls on the client library:
- `KodyPayTerminalService`
- `KodyEcomPaymentsService`

### Terminal - In-person payments

The Kody Payments API Terminal service has the following methods:

- [Get List of Terminals](#Get-list-of-Terminals): `KodyPayTerminalService.Terminals` - returns all the terminals of the store and their online status
- [Create Terminal Payment](#create-terminal-payment):`KodyPayTerminalService.Pay` - initiate a terminal payment
- Cancel terminal payment: `KodyPayTerminalService.Cancel` - cancel an active terminal payment
- [Get Payment Details](#get-terminal-payment-details) `KodyPayTerminalService.PaymentDetails` - get the payment details

Follow the links of these methods to see the sample code and the data specification.

### Online - E-commerce payments

The Kody Payments API Online service has the following methods:

> - `KodyEcomPaymentsService.InitiatePayment` - returns a URL to display to the shopper an online payment page

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `KodyEcomPaymentsService.InitiatePayment` - returns a URL to display an online payment page to the shopper
```

    online: bool  # Online status

@dataclass
class TerminalsResponse:
    terminals: List[Terminal]  # List of Terminal objects
```

#### Python Demo
````python
import kody_clientsdk_python.pay.v1.pay_pb2 as kody_model
import kody_clientsdk_python.pay.v1.pay_pb2_grpc as kody_client

channel = grpc.secure_channel("https://grpc-staging.kodypay.com", grpc.ssl_channel_credentials())
kody_service = kody_client.KodyPayTerminalServiceStub(channel)
metadata = [("x-api-key", "API KEY")]

# Make the client call with request and metadata
get_terminals_request = kody_model.TerminalsRequest(store_id="STORE ID")
get_terminals_response = kody_service.Terminals(get_terminals_request, metadata=metadata)
````

### Create terminal payment

Send a payment initiation request to a terminal. 
This request will either make the terminal immediately display the card acquiring screen, or display a tip screen to the user after which it will go to the card acquiring screen.

A test terminal might have multiple apps on the OS screen. Launch the terminal app called `[S] Payments`.

The terminal must be in the mode: `Wait for Orders` which can be launched from the terminal app menu.

> A store that has the feature `Wait for Orders` enable will always launch the `Wait for Orders` screen automatically. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A store that has the feature `Wait for Orders` enabled will always launch the `Wait for Orders` screen automatically. 
```

> This screen can be closed to access other terminal features, but payments from API will not work until the `Wait for Orders` screen is started. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This screen can be closed (by tapping the `X` icon) to access other terminal features, but payments from API will not work until the `Wait for Orders` screen is started. 
```

#### PayRequest - Payment Request 
```python
@dataclass
class PayRequest:
    store_id: str
    terminal_id: str
    amount: float
    show_tips: bool
```

Request parameters:
- `store_id` - the ID of your assigned store
- `terminal_id` - the serial number of the terminal that will process the payment request. This number is returned by the [list of terminals request](#get-list-of-terminals), or can be found on the back label of the hardware.

> - `amount` - amount as a 2.dp decimal number, such as `"1.00"`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `amount` - amount as a 2.dp decimal number, such as `1.00`
```

                                        amount="65.50",
                                        show_tips=bool(False))
payment_response = kody_service.Pay(payment_request, metadata=metadata])
````

### Get Terminal Payment Details

The payment details request requires the following parameters:
- `store_id` - the ID of your assigned store
- `order_id` - the Order ID returned in the initial payment response, a unique UUID value for each payment.

````python
payment_details_response = kody_client.PaymentDetails(
    kody_model.PaymentDetailsRequest(store_id="STORE ID", 
                                     order_id="ORDER ID"),
    metadata=metadata
)
````
- PayResponse : [Get Payment Detail Response](#payresponse--payment-response)

### Cancel Terminal Payment

#### CancelRequest
The cancel payment request requires the following parameters:

- `store_id` - the ID of your assigned store
- `terminal_id` - the serial number of the terminal that is processing the payment request
- `amount` - the amount sent in the original payment request, used to find the payment request
- `order_id` - the Order ID returned in the initial payment response, a unique UUID value for each payment

> The request authenticates with the server using the `x-api-key` metadata field, you must use your assigned API key.

Reviewer 2: I forgot to remove this line. There is no need to mention again how to authenticate the request.
```suggestion

```

- `return_url` - where the payment form will redirect to after the payment has completed, the return url will have additional query parameters appended to indicate the status of the payment request.
- `expiry` - how long the payment form will wait until the payment expires and the page will redirect to the return url

````python
response = kody_client.InitiatePayment(
    kody_model.PaymentInitiationRequest(store_id="STORE ID",
                                        payment_reference=payment_reference,
                                        amount=amount,
                                        currency=currency,
                                        order_id=order_id,
                                        return_url=return_url,
                                        expiry=expiry),
    metadata=metadata)
````

#### PaymentInitiationResponse - Online payment response
````python
@dataclass
class PaymentInitiationResponse:
    response: Optional[Response] = None
    error: Optional[Error] = None

@dataclass
class Response:
    payment_id: str  # The unique identifier created by Kody

>     payment_url: str  # The URL to send the user to from your application

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    payment_url: str  # The URL to send to the user from your application
```

- `KodyEcomPaymentsService.GetCardToken` - get card token
- `KodyEcomPaymentsService.GetPayments` - get list of all store payments, with a filter and paginated

## API data reference and Demo code

Every request to the client library requires authentication and the identifier of the store. See more [authentication](#authenticate-to-payments-api).

### Get list of Terminals

This is a simple and read only method, that returns a list of all terminals assigned to the store, and their online status.
You can use this request frequently and it is a good way to check if your API code is configured properly for authentication.

- TerminalRequest : Terminal Request
```python
@dataclass
class TerminalRequest:
    store_id: str  # The store id
```

- TerminalResponse : Terminal Response
```python
@dataclass
class Terminal:
    terminal_id: str  # Terminal serial number
    online: bool  # Online status

@dataclass
class TerminalsResponse:
    terminals: List[Terminal]  # List of Terminal objects
```

#### Python Demo
````python
import kody_clientsdk_python.pay.v1.pay_pb2 as kody_model
import kody_clientsdk_python.pay.v1.pay_pb2_grpc as kody_client

> channel = grpc.secure_channel("https://grpc-staging.kodypay.com", grpc.ssl_channel_credentials())

Reviewer: ```suggestion
channel = grpc.secure_channel("HOSTNAME", grpc.ssl_channel_credentials())
```

- `amount` - amount as a 2.dp decimal number, such as `"1.00"`
- `show_tips` - (optional) whether to show (true) or hide (false) the tip options. Default is (false)

#### PayResponse : Payment Response

````python
class PaymentStatus(Enum):
    PENDING = 1
    SUCCESS = 2
    FAILED = 3
    CANCELLED = 4

@dataclass
class PayResponse:
    status: PaymentStatus
    order_id: str  # Unique order ID generated by Kody
    failure_reason: Optional[str] = None  # Optional, only populated on failure
    receipt_json: Optional[str] = None  # Optional, json blob for receipt data
    date_created: datetime  # Timestamp when the response was created
    ext_payment_ref: Optional[str] = None  # Optional external payment reference
    date_paid: Optional[datetime] = None  # Optional timestamp for date paid
    total_amount: Optional[str] = None  # Optional total amount
    sale_amount: Optional[str] = None  # Optional sale amount
    tips_amount: Optional[str] = None  # Optional tips amount
````

#### Python Demo 
````python
import kody_clientsdk_python.pay.v1.pay_pb2 as kody_model
import kody_clientsdk_python.pay.v1.pay_pb2_grpc as kody_client

> channel = grpc.secure_channel("https://grpc-staging.kodypay.com", grpc.ssl_channel_credentials())

Reviewer: ```suggestion
channel = grpc.secure_channel("HOSTNAME", grpc.ssl_channel_credentials())
```
